These are notes from PW#27 Preparation Hangouts held weekly on Tuesdays at 10am Boston time between Nov 7th and December 19th.

## Hangout #7: Dec 19

* Reviewed creation of a new project entry on this repository
* Added people to the discussion forum for the team
* There will be a last video conference on January 2, 2018 for any last minute questions/comments

## Hangout #6: Dec 12

* Discussion about Nicole's project - harmous interface to research software, FDA clearance discussion at PW
* Breakout sessions - discussed and added these to the calendar

## Hangout #5: Dec 5

* Discussion and work session on github for project week organization
  * General goal is to replace the wiki with something more "standard"
  * Published site: https://projectweek.na-mic.org/
  * Repository: https://github.com/NA-MIC/ProjectWeek
  * Overall github is not really easier than mediawiki but generally it's agreed that git has become an essential tool that all Project Week attendees will benefit from learning.
* Usage
  * Everyone needs to create a github account
  * First edit should be done by forking the ProjectWeek repository and creating a pull request
  * Several people (Andras, Steve, Jc, Tina...) are administrators who will
    * Merge the pull request
    * Add the attendee to the collaborator list for the Project Week project so that future edits can be done directly without using pull rqeusts
  * Discussions about project week should happen on discourse.slicer.org, not on github

## Hangout #4: Nov 28

* Discussion "Slicer solutions"
  * Nice because it supports different dissemination mechanism. See [https://discourse.slicer.org/t/its-all-about-transitions-lets-talk-about-slicers-landing-page/113/35?u=jcfr discourse discussion]
  * Need to have a community, a gate keeper
  * Criteria (copied from discourse):
    * Provides service to an specific community (clinical/methodological)
    * Provides a processing pipeline from beginning to end
    * Has a support system: a dedicated PI/coordinator, a website, documentation/tutorials etc
  * Topic to discuss at project week:
    * Where to advertise "commercial" solutions ? It should be clear that is closed source
    * When/how to update list of solutions ?
    * Share story about building FDA approved app based on Slicer
    * Services to support Slicer custom
    * Streamline continuous integration
    * Improve landing page

## Hangout #3: Nov 21

* Main topic: Gran Canaria Team projects
* Administrivia: should we use this to help people copy the template page to make their own project page? https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:Duplicator
* Discourse sub community?
  * Subscribe, see the welcome page below. google, github, Facebook are all supported authentication options so people can one-click use their existing accounts if they want:
  * https://discourse.slicer.org/t/welcome-to-the-3d-slicer-forum/8
  * After logging in, visit: https://discourse.slicer.org/c/community/project-week, and click the “Watching” button to enable notifications:
* Administrivia -- assign topics for remainder of the calls
  * Nov 28 — SlicerSolutions (owners of 6 solutions are Bea, Andras, Steve, Lauren, Raul, Tamas)
  * Dec 5
  * Dec 12
  * Dec 19
  * Jan 2 -- do we need one

## Hangout #2: November 14th, 2017

* 10.00 AM Boston time
* Topics:
  * New topics to be added to the project list
  * Analytics of traffic in Slicer.org and Discourse
  * Registration page to be done
  * Andras agreed to provide segmentation help
    * Tina wants to organize it
    * Participants will be asked to provide shareable test data and to post results / tutorial on discourse site

## Hangout #1: November 7th, 2017

* 10.00 AM Boston time
* discussed overall theme of Project Week.  After reviewing options VR/AR emerged as a common interest
  * recent experimental SlicerOpenVR could be demoed
  * other devices could be set up for experimentation
* Discussed opportunity for people to bring their own data to get suggestions for segmentations
