---
layout: pw41-project

permalink: /:path/

project_title: Visual Evaluation and 3D Inspection of Cortical Surface Reconstructions from MRI Using
  3D Slicer
category: Segmentation / Classification / Landmarking
presenter_location: Online

key_investigators:

- name: Kaveh Moradkhani
  affiliation: ÉTS
  country: Canada

- name: Sylvain Bouix
  affiliation: ÉTS
  country: Canada

- name: Jarrett Rushmore
  affiliation: Boston University
  country: USA

---

# Project Description

<!-- Add a short paragraph describing the project. -->


We will visually evaluate and inspect the outputs obtained from the cortical surface reconstructions generated by our designed model. We will ensure the accuracy and correctness of these reconstructions, focusing on white matter and pial surfaces to assess their structural integrity and reliability.



## Objective

<!-- Describe here WHAT you would like to achieve (what you will have as end result). -->


1. Objective A: Visually evaluate cortical surface reconstructions from MRI images. Focus on assessing white matter and pial surfaces in .stl and .ply formats to ensure high-quality reconstructions.
2. Objective B: Visualize and inspect these reconstructions using 3D Slicer. Examine surface topology and detect self-intersections to ensure structural integrity and accuracy.



## Approach and Plan

<!-- Describe here HOW you would like to achieve the objectives stated above. -->


_No response_



## Progress and Next Steps

Progress

During the NA-MIC Project Weeks, significant progress was made in the following areas:

    
**1- Neuroanatomy and Neurosegmentation Overview:** Attended sessions led by Professor Jarrett Rushmore on neuroanatomy, neurosegmentation, and the evaluation of brain structures.
**2- Freesurfer Outputs Examination:** Analyzed the outputs of Freesurfer, identifying inaccuracies, such as regions mistakenly classified as cortical surface, like the hippocampus, and parts including gray matter instead of cortex.
**3- Sinus Examination in MRA Images:** Investigated the presence and structure of sinuses in MRA images.
**4-Model Comparison:** Compared the outputs of our model against those from Freesurfer and Vox2Cortex models, identifying strengths and weaknesses. Notably, Fastsurfer was found to be inferior to Freesurfer in certain cases.
**5- Model Evaluation and Problem Identification:** Evaluated the outputs of our cortical surface reconstruction model at critical points, identifying various issues and areas for improvement.
**6-3D Slicer Extension Development:** Developed approximately 70% of the extension for 3D Slicer to support cortical surface reconstruction tasks.

Next Steps

Moving forward, the following steps will be undertaken:

    
**1- Problem Resolution:** Address the issues identified during the visual evaluation of the model’s outputs, ensuring higher accuracy and structural integrity.
**2- Extension Completion:** Finalize the development of the 3D Slicer extension to fully support the cortical surface reconstruction workflow.



# Illustrations

<!-- Add pictures and links to videos that demonstrate what has been accomplished. -->


_No response_



# Background and References

<!-- If you developed any software, include link to the source code repository.
     If possible, also add links to sample data, and to any relevant publications. -->


_No response_

